# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
In console.rb.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
In property.rb in the save method.

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
13, 22, 31, 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
id is set by the database not the class so won't know what the id is until it is saved in the database as this is the primary key.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
It is assigned in the save method in propety.rb. It is returned from the returned array from the INSERT query using @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
This is because it may not exist when the class is constructed as it only exists once saved in the database.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
Some of the actions only affect a row of the database as represented by an instance of the class so are instance methods. Others take action on the whole database and so are class methods.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
This returns a tuple of hashes. We access id with @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
To stop any insertion attacks (to stop malicious sql code being inserted into our sql queries).

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
id integer and address string.

Q11. What are their return values?
Property class objects.
